# Reactive Programming

Reactive programming is an asynchronous, non-blocking programming paradigm focused on data streams and the propagation of change.

In simple words, it is all about reacting to a stream of events.

# Observer Pattern

Naturally, to react to any event or events, we need to observe changes and act when they are notified. The observer pattern helps us do exactly this.

The observer pattern involves a subject, or observable, to which observers can subscribe. Observables can produce values over time, and subscribers will be notified about them. Subscribers are free to do whatever they want with the values they receive.

To get values from an observable, we need to subscribe. If we no longer want to receive values, we need to unsubscribe.

Sometimes, observables are finite and complete their value generation, then stop. On the other hand, some observables may be infinite, and we can keep receiving events from them indefinitely.

Finite observable example: consider an observable that makes a network fetch and returns a value or an error, then stops. This means that once we receive a value, we technically unsubscribe automatically from the observable.

Infinite observable example: consider an observable that runs periodically and keeps emitting values. Basically, these are values over time. These values over time are often called streams. In this case, if we no longer want to receive any values, we need to unsubscribe.

## References

[RxJS official docs](https://rxjs.dev/guide/overview)
[What is Reactive Programming](https://youtu.be/e1_20ut4mwU?si=sY0xZ8axvF89gQ-V)
